---
tags: [dreamjournal]
aliases: ["Ronaldo"]
---

# Ronaldo
### 2022-02-19
---

At the start of the dream I was a man named Ronaldo, and I think it was in some sort of Western-style town from the Wild West days. I was standing on top of a building, and I was shot and fell off into the street. I was feeling on my gut where I was shot and found that there was no bullet hole, it was healed over already, and some woman came up next to my side. I weakly said that she let me die, as she let the bullet stay in me and kill me instead of taking it out, and then I died.

Then the dream flashed to the current time, or at least no longer in a Wild West town. I was someone who had cared for Ronaldo and missed him dearly. I wasn't sure whether I was in Seattle, but it was a modern day city, and there were frequent segments of the dream where I was walking down a street that had a convenience store, and I remember seeing [[Shashank]] there, and I had the feeling that other Pano people were there as well.

At one point in the dream I was with an old woman at her home, and presumably she knew Ronaldo as well. I think she was my character's grandmother? Perhaps she was the woman that was at Ronaldo's side as he died. She was prepping for her piano lessons, and as her piano teacher was parking his car by the curb and entering, I was helping her setup her sheet music stand on top the piano. It didn't look like standard stand, it was smaller and gold, and came inside a box that almost looked like a box of chocolates, and required more assembly than a standard stand.

While I was setting up the music stand, something reminded me of Ronaldo, perhaps it was a picture but I can't be sure. And then I began to cry, deeply missing him, and then I woke up.