---
tags: [dreamjournal]
aliases: ["Untitled"]
---

# Untitled
### 2022-02-10
---

This was a weird one, and I'm writing this a few days later so it's a bit hazy. It was more like a series of vignettes than a dream with a coherent story.

I remember being a Tarzan like character, wearing a loincloth and living in the jungle, and I was skydiving, or rather just jumping off, a tall, skinny, cylindrical mountain. It was almost like a tower, but it was a natural formation with vegetation and whatnot, like something you'd see in a cartoon. I'd survive the fall by doing a back flip right before I hit the ground, as if I was in some kind of video game and this double jump would cancel my momentum.

I then remember a scene where we are a party, with the pano squad in our apartment, except our apartment looked different. The layout reminds of Ivorine's apartment from that one time I went there for a party. I think it was a Halloween party? We were being really loud, with music bumping, and our neighbors (who had a door that opened right into our apartment) complained and told us to turn it down since it was 3 AM. I was for turning it down, but [[Matt]] wanted to keep it bumping, but eventually he agreed. The neighbors gave us a 6 pack of beer bottles, but there were only like 3 bottles in the pack and some of them were already opened/half empty.

During the party I remember telling someone about the skydiving in the jungle, as if it were a part of my past/a memory. I also remember some girl holding a turtle, but not much else about that.

Then there was a scene in some sort of jungle swamp/lake, and I was swimming through it to get to one side. Once I was there, I saw it was a junkyard full of random objects, like some sort of tinkerers area. I think the girl with the turtle was here as well, maybe the turtle was in the lake? I'm not too sure.