---
tags: [dreamjournal]
aliases: ["A Dangerous Filming"]
---

# A Dangerous Filming
### 2022-06-06
---

I was part of a movie crew filming some B-horror/sci-fi movie in an abandoned facility in the middle of some canyon/ravine. I say canyon because it reminds me of the grand canyon in color, the rock walls were all shades of brown, with some rust veins cutting through them. Some form of sedimentary rock. The facility we wanted to use was beneath us, inside the canyon in some sort of cave system that was part natural, part carved by the facility. The actual entrance to the facility was lost/unknown/unusable to us, so we had to enter from above, through this perfectly cut circle.

Before we entered, we were discussing what we were going to film. The main character was this badass-girl archetype, and the scene involved her killing some monsters with a cool looking Borderlands-esque machine gun. It was held two-handed and off to the side, like the Heavy's minigun in TF2, but instead of minigun barrels, it ended in a metal plate with 8 holes in a 4x2 grid pattern (lengthwise). The top and bottom of the the plate had angle pieces going back towards the user at a 45 degree angle for a few inches. It looked like those devices for smacking down concrete flat, but held like a gun. It even moved like such devices, in that the front plate would shoot backwards and then pop back to its original position from the force. Each time it flew back, 8 bullets would fly out, and it could do this at minigun speeds. It was called a thumper, and it was pretty crazy.

Anyways, I was the cameraman, and I was saying that it was too dangerous to film in this location. Apparently I had been saying this for a while and the director didn't care, we seemed to butt heads a lot. I was saying that this was an abandoned facility and we have no idea what's down there, and during this argument the dream camera was a birds-eye-view of the circle that was cut into the rocks and led into the facility below. Directly beneath the hole was a giant cylindrical tank full of water, with the same diameter as the hole, it was just shorter such that the water didn't reach the hole itself. During this top-down view, I there was another circle moving around, and wherever it was I could see something that wasn't there, or not visible to us. It's hard to describe, but imagine like a circular mask in Photoshop moving around the view and revealing things. It revealed 2 shark-like creatures that were swimming in the tank, presumably experiments by the facility. My dream self wasn't aware of these creatures, but they were part of some nagging feeling in the back of my head as for why we shouldn't be down there.

Despite this, the director's wishes won. His plan was to send just the necessary crew and actors to minimize risk, lower them into the tank with ropes and then they could swim the edge of tank where there was a catwalk/stairs down to the ground, and when they needed to leave, they could use a motorized winch to pull people back up from the tank. I was one of the necessary crew, but I don't remember the process of going down (nor did I interact with those sharks that were supposedly in the water). The next scene was in first-person and I was already down in the cave system.

I was looking at the giant tank, and despite being underground there was actually really good lighting, partly from the giant hole in front of me, but there were also other corridors in the canyon/cave that had openings to the sky (not sure why didn't come down those ways that didn't involve water 🤷🏽‍♂️). I walked down one corridor that did happen to be fully enclosed, but one wall was made of glass. On the other side was a small ravine of sorts, there was another cliff fall maybe 20 feet from the glass that went up out of view, and on the floor was a river (not sure how deep). I could see that the river continued on out of sight as the corridor I was in ended in a dead-end, so I assumed it went out to sea.

In the river there were two seals, and they were looking at me, and another crew member who was with me. Before I could process what was going on, the shark things from earlier zoomed in from the left and killed the seals. And then as quickly as it happened, the scene reset. Unfortunately the seals weren't safe this time either, as instead of normal sharks, now they were these giant humanoid creatures with dark grey shark skin and shark heads (Think king shark from Suicide Squad but a lot more muscular and taller). They picked up the seals and threw them at the glass, causing cracks, and I realized we had to get out of there.

I started running back towards the main tank we came down in, and saw that there was now a big crack in it. I then had a vision of it breaking and the cave system flooding, while the glass near the shark monsters also broke, and I was wondering if I could outswim them to the surface. I didn't think I could, but before I was forced to test it out, I woke up.

I was really tired when I woke up though, so I went back to sleep, and it was restless so I kept waking up and going back to sleep, each time seeing snippets of different dreams. I'll put them in a separate entry to keep things clean: [[2022-06-06 Anthology of Interest|Anthology of Interest]].