---
tags: [dreamjournal]
aliases: ["SWAT"]
---

# SWAT
### 2022-05-28
---

I was in some big building, aesthetically somewhere in-between a parking garage and an abandoned hospital. It was pretty run down and not super well lit. I was some sort of agent, and I had another agent with me, and we clearing the the building of hostiles room by room, although I'm not sure what our overall mission was.

We had just come up to an upper floor, which for some reason was flooded while the lower floors were not. It wasn't super deep, maybe a few inches of water or so. The enemies in the building were sometimes ninjas, sometimes they were taller monsters, maybe 7 or 8 feet tall and kind of lanky. Both me and my partner had Tasers instead of proper guns, but the Tasers seemed effective enough at incapacitating all forms of enemies.

What was unfortunate though was that my partner was pretty incompetent. Frequently I would be hit by his Taser, or his Taser would hit the water on the floor near me and I'd be electrocuted. Each time this happened, the dream would reset to when we first entered the floor, as that seemed to be the checkpoint for this game. There was even one time where the fool used a defibrillator on the ground to try and electrocute the enemies. Which it did, but it hit me too (somehow not him though).

I'm not sure what else happened, this was more of just a scene than a full story/dream. I barely remember walking around the floor more, but I can't recall enough details to describe them adequately. Eventually the dream became [[2022-05-28 The End of the World|The End of the World]].