---
tags: [dreamjournal]
aliases: ["The Heist"]
---

# The Heist
### 2022-05-20
---

This dream started out in some warehouse style building where I was part of some gang, Payday style, and we were planning a heist on some nearby building. Like many of my dreams, there was a video game style interface (similar to the holographic one in Borderlands) where I was selecting my loadout for the heist, as well as the mask for the heist (which is why this felt like Payday). I think [[Sam Neil|Neil]] was part of my squad, although I can't remember too clearly.

Once we were done preparing, we executed our heist. Unlike most heists that try to be quiet, we started off hot. The building was a large, square one, similar to the warehouse that I started in. It was at an intersection (imagine a bird's eye view of the 4 corners of an intersection, the building was in the bottom right). For some reason, there were already a ton of cops to the top and left side of the intersection. Our gang came in a bunch of vans and drifted them into a strategic wall to give us cover as we hopped out of the vans, put on our masks, and entered the building. Unfortunately, shortly after I entered the building, I was shot by one of the cops.

---

Afterwards, I was somehow on the Microsoft connector going back home, except the route was a little different than normal. It was coming down the 520, towards the intersection where I would turn right with my bike and start going up the steep, winding hill. I was somehow on the front of the connector with my bike (like on the outside of the bus, not really sure how this worked), and I was able to carry a conversation with the bus driver. I was enjoying the conversation, so I decided to not go my usual route and follow alongside the bus.

I kept talking with the driver, but I don't really remember what we were talking about. The path changed and was elevated (as in to the left there was a chain link fence and then a drop, maybe 20 feet or so, to an actual road). To the right were some houses, but at some point the road I was on split off to the left and became really narrow, like a footpath. The houses were still off to the right, but the path I was on dipped a bit lower than the road with the houses.

Somehow the bus driver was still with me, even though this was a footpath. At some point, he just started walking and the bus had disappeared. This being a dream, I didn't really question it. I remember the area got super foresty, almost like a jungle, and then we came upon the side door of some warehouse. We entered and went down some staircase, and I remember seeing a red door that we went through to get outside. Right before we exited the building, I saw a marking on the wall next to the door and I felt a sense of deja vu, and realized that I had seen the marking while I was in the heist from earlier.

When we stepped outside, it was no longer the foresty PNW, but a street in India. The color palette changed to beige as the street was dusty and it was hot. I saw some Indian policemen walking about, and when I looked back at the bus driver who was still with me, he looked familiar, and I realized that he was one of the gang members from the heist. It seemed like the police here were searching for him. I wasn't sure why I was India or why they cared about this guy, as I feel like the heist was definitely in the US. But before I could question it any further, it went black as this dream ended. The next dream was [[2022-05-20 Homewrecker|Homewrecker]].