Sequel to [[The Fall of Hyperion]].

- Seems to be like [[The Fall of Hyperion]], in that it's a single narrative, unlike the multiple stories of [[Hyperion]]. It's also in first person, which I don't think the previous book was in, although I might be mistaken.
- The first scene with the hunters and Raul's dog dying was pretty gripping.
- The writing style of this book feels a lot different, it feels more movie like in it's pacing, which isn't a bad thing, I find that it's more gripping. Not to say that the previous books weren't, or maybe this is just a big change from [[Slaughterhouse 5]] and the nature of an epic story feels more gripping than meta-fiction.
- I think Simmons does a really good job of referencing characters and plot from the previous books without it being too heavy-handed or detracting from the current book. It's like what the sequel trilogy for Star Wars should've been like but failed at. [[Endymion]] gives enough clues for you to figure out the reference yourself and then when you get inevitably validated it feels really good. I'm excited to see where this goes.
	- In a way it reminds me of how KOTOR 2 references plot from the first game.
- Like Dune, thinking machines are banned. At least in this series I have the context as to why, since the Techno Core was trying to end humanity in the first two books. In Dune, you have to read the prequels, which I guess is the same idea.
- Aenea says the Pax has brought about dark ages similar to medieval times, as they have stunted technological progress. A feel like a lot of the mid 20th century sci-fi I've been reading lately has been critical of religion, or at least organized religion, which I mostly agree with anyways.
- I just realized that the androids in this universe are like the robots in Rossum's Universal Robots, in that both are organic. Interesting connection that I missed earlier.
- Another connection is that this universe has 'thopters, just like in [[Dune]]! I don't recall this word in previous books, but they do mention them in [[Endymion]].